Correct kernel-output example (#58)
jtpio/jupyterlab-extension-examples: advanced/kernel-output/README.md

# Kernel Output - Simple Notebook-style Rendering

- [Code structure](#code-structure)
- [Initializing a Kernel Session](#initializing-a-kernel-session)
- [OutputArea and Model](#outputarea-and-model)
- [Asynchronous Extension Initialization](#asynchronous-extension-initialization)
- [Make it Run](#make-it-run)

![OutputArea class](preview.gif)

In this example, you will see how initialize a kernel, how to execute code
and how to display the rendered output. The `OutputArea` class used by Jupyterlab

> to render an output area under a notebook cell or in the console will be reused.

Reviewer: How about this?

```
In this example, you will see how to initialize a kernel, execute code
and display the rendered output. The `OutputArea` class used by JupyterLab
to render an output area under a notebook cell or in the console will be reused.
```

Author: Sounds better indeed

Essentially, `OutputArea` will render the data that comes as a reply to an
execute message sent to an underlying kernel. Under the hood, the
`OutputArea` and the `OutputAreaModel` classes act similarly to the `KernelView`
and `KernelModel` classes defined in the [Kernel Messaging](../kernel-messaging/README.md)
example.

## Code structure

> The code is separated into two parts:

Reviewer: Should it be "split` instead of "separated"?

1.  the JupyterLab plugin that activates all the extension components and connects
    them to the main `Jupyterlab` application via commands, launcher and menu
    items,
2.  a panel that contains the extension logic and UI elements to interact with it.

The first part is contained in the `index.ts` file and the second in `panel.ts`.

In the following sections, the logic will be first described. It is

> followed by the visual element creation.

Reviewer: Or:

```suggestion
followed by the creation of the visual element.
```

## Initializing a Kernel Session

To interact with a kernel, you first need to create a `ClientSession`
object ([see the documentation](https://jupyterlab.github.io/jupyterlab/apputils/classes/clientsession.html)).
Here it is stored in the private `_session` variable:

```ts
// src/panel.ts#L71-L71

private _session: ClientSession;
```

A `ClientSession` handles a single kernel session. The session itself (not yet
the kernel) is started with these lines:

```ts
// src/panel.ts#L32-L35

this._session = new ClientSession({
  manager: manager.sessions,
  name: 'Example'
});
```

The private session variable is exposed as read-only for other users
through a getter method:

```ts
// src/panel.ts#L49-L51

get session(): IClientSession {
  return this._session;
}
```

Once you have created a session, the associated kernel can be initialized
with this line:

```ts
// src/panel.ts#L44-L46

this._session.initialize().catch(reason => {
  console.error(`Fail to initialize session in ExamplePanel.\n${reason}`);
});
```

> When a session has no predefined favourite kernel, a dialog will request the user to choose a kernel to start. Conveniently, this can

Reviewer: We could use "preferred" like in the kernel selection dialog:

```suggestion
When a session has no predefined preferred kernel, a dialog will request the user to choose a kernel to start. Conveniently, this can
```

Author: Indeed it will be more coherent.

also be an already existing kernel, as you will see later.

> The following two methods unsure the clean disposal of the session

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following two methods ensure the clean disposal of the session
```

does not contain the data that is displayed). When this message is received,
`.then` is executed and prints this message to the console.

To display the `SimplifiedOutputArea` Widget you need to add it to your
panel with:

```ts
// src/panel.ts#L43-L43

this.addWidget(this._outputarea);
```

> The last step is to add the panel into JupyterLab.

Reviewer: We could directly be specific:

```suggestion
The last step is to add the panel to the JupyterLab main area.
```

## Asynchronous Extension Initialization

`index.ts` contains the code to initialize the extension.

First, it is a good practice to unify the extension commands into one namespace at the top of the file:

```ts
// src/index.ts#L21-L25

namespace CommandIDs {
  export const create = 'kernel-output:create';

  export const execute = 'kernel-output:execute';
}
```

You can then add the commands to the palette and the menu by iterating
on a list:

```ts
// src/index.ts#L86-L90

// add items in command palette and menu
[CommandIDs.create, CommandIDs.execute].forEach(command => {
  palette.addItem({ command, category });
  exampleMenu.addItem({ command });
});
```

> To create new client session, the service manager must be obtained from

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a new client session, the service manager must be obtained from
```

the JupyterLab application:

```ts
// src/index.ts#L45-L45

const manager = app.serviceManager;
```

To launch the panel, you need to wait for the service manager to be

> ready. Then once the panel is created and its session is ready. It

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ready. Then once the panel is created and its session is ready, it
```

> can be inserted in the JupyterLab main area:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
can be added to the JupyterLab main area:
```
